Sample Data
Howdy everyone,

 

We have loaded sample data for the project up in Canvas.  You’ll find it under Files -> Team Project as TSV files in a single ZIP file named “Sample Data.zip".  (N.B. We used to provide XLSX files as well, but Excel mangles with formatting unexpectedly, so we are sticking to safe plain text.)

 

VERY VERY IMPORTANT NOTE - YOU MUST READ THIS:

If you import this data correctly (so note, if your schema and application are correct, this is a way to validate that you’ve done it correctly) then the shelter will be at capacity for cats and dogs, and you’ll have only one adoptable pet, a cat named “Sheba” with an ID of 283. 

 

This means at some point in your demo, probably at the start, you will need to enter Sheba’s adoption (which can be to any approved adoption application) so that the shelter is no longer at capacity.

 

Here are some additional rules about this sample data we’d like everyone to observe:

We expect you to have this data loaded in your database so we can validate some functionalities of your application.  (Please don’t ask which functionalities, you’ll get to find out during the Q&A portion of your demo.) If you don’t get it loaded, you may lose the points allocated for those functionalites whose validation depends on the sample data.
There are no exceptions to this.  If you don’t have the data loaded, you won’t earn any credit on grading items that require it.
Please don’t modify the data values, as we need to be able to compare everyone against a common data set.  You may make adjustments to things like column names in order to better match your schema, but that should be the extent of your changes.
Some DBMSes will require you to “allow identity inserts” in order to set things like identifying attributes that are autogenerated.  Please refer to your DBMS’ documentation or do a Google search to determine how to adjust that setting if necessary.
If you find that your schema is preventing you from loading something, that might be a sign you need to double-check that your schema is correct.
The data values that we have provided to you in the project spec (such as breed, species, and vaccination types) that require their own tables are not a part of this sample data, as you should have already loaded those values on your own.
Since some of what’s in here could be used to come up with potential answers, please don’t post any summaries or anything else derived from this data, since that may be information we are seeking during the demonstration and even a simple question regarding totals could be considered sharing/discussing an answer.  In the same vein, we won’t be able to confirm any summary data you might privately post, as again, it might be something we’re looking to validate during your demonstration and we can’t give away an answer.
We really can’t advise you on how to load the data because it depends on the stack you’re using, please don’t ask for suggestions how.  It’s entirely up to your team to figure out how to get this into your database.  You could write something in your existing programming language choice, or investigate a script using something like Python, or even utilize data import tools that come with many DBMS distributions.  We’ve left the data mostly normalized, which means it shouldn’t take more than an hour or two to map it and load it into your database.
In the same vein DO NOT take shortcuts and simply change out your code to utilize this data - it has been slightly denormalized as to discourage you from doing this.  If we find that a team has done this, there will be a penalty on their demo grade for not utilizing their original schema.
While it is denormalized slightly, we made sure to leave it realtively well normalized so that loading the data into your schema can be done rather quickly - it should not take more than an hour or two to get this data into your database.
Finally, this data is only slightly in touch with the real world, so for example, don’t be worried if you see something that doesn’t quite align with reality, such as a city named “Honolulu, TX”.  The description and surrender fields are also randomly generated, so they may not reflect other data values (such as an animal description mentioning “poodle” but the animal breed actually being set to “French Bulldog”).
 

Please feel free to ask any questions in the follow ups!

 

#pin
